git/git-submodules-with-different-remote-hosts.md, before:

# Git Submodules with Different Remote Hosts
This is a public repository on GitHub that is being used as a [submodule](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Tools-Submodules) of my private personal repository on Gitea.

If I run the following from `Obsidian` and from `Obsidian/til`
```
git config --list | rg remote
```

I see the following results
```
remote.origin.url=git@github.com:lydavid/til.git
remote.origin.fetch=+refs/heads/*:refs/remotes/origin/*
branch.main.remote=origin
```

```
remote.origin.url=git@10.0.0.2:lydavid/Obsidian.git
remote.origin.fetch=+refs/heads/*:refs/remotes/origin/*
branch.obsidian.remote=origin
```

One of the issues I encountered while setting this up was I had `commit.gpgsign` set up [globally](git-config-scope.md), which prevented me from committing to this repository. So I had to disable it.
```
git config --global --unset commit.gpgsign
```

Then I set it up locally for the root git repository. I did not set it up for this repository yet because it uses a different email.
After [speeding up git in WSL](../wsl/speed-up-git-in-wsl.md), I've begun trying to use git in WSL exclusively. Now that there's less keys to manage, I'm comfortable with default commit signing.

## Pulling changes after creating a submodule

### One-time
```
git submodule init
git submodule update
```

If I want to be able be able to push changes from my phone, then I need to set up [SSH](ssh-for-github-and-gitea.md).

### Each time
```
git pull --recurse
```

## Where is the local git config?

It's under `./git/modules/til/config` from the root repository.

Commit message:

add troubleshooting for when pulling submodule failed

git/git-submodules-with-different-remote-hosts.md, after:

# Git Submodules with Different Remote Hosts
This is a public repository on GitHub that is being used as a [submodule](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Tools-Submodules) of my private personal repository on Gitea.

If I run the following from `Obsidian` and from `Obsidian/til`
```
git config --list | rg remote
```

I see the following results
```
remote.origin.url=git@github.com:lydavid/til.git
remote.origin.fetch=+refs/heads/*:refs/remotes/origin/*
branch.main.remote=origin
```

```
remote.origin.url=git@10.0.0.2:lydavid/Obsidian.git
remote.origin.fetch=+refs/heads/*:refs/remotes/origin/*
branch.obsidian.remote=origin
```

One of the issues I encountered while setting this up was I had `commit.gpgsign` set up [globally](git-config-scope.md), which prevented me from committing to this repository. So I had to disable it.
```
git config --global --unset commit.gpgsign
```

Then I set it up locally for the root git repository. I did not set it up for this repository yet because it uses a different email.
After [speeding up git in WSL](../wsl/speed-up-git-in-wsl.md), I've begun trying to use git in WSL exclusively. Now that there's less keys to manage, I'm comfortable with default commit signing.

## Pulling changes after creating a submodule

### One-time
```
git submodule init
git submodule update
```

If I want to be able be able to push changes from my phone, then I need to set up [SSH](ssh-for-github-and-gitea.md).

### Each time
```
git pull --recurse
```

## Where is the local git config?

It's under `.git/modules/til/config` from the root repository.

## Troubleshooting

### bad object
```
fatal: bad object <hash>
error: https://github.com/lydavid/til.git did not send all necessary objects
```

The solution that worked was to `git submodule sync`.
